Hello, dear friends! My name is Elena Proskura. I represent the company Moscow Business School,
I am an active business coach and consultant in the field of personnel management.
Today's topic is called Corporate Culture and Change in the Company.
What tasks will be solved during this course?
First of all, we would like to talk about corporate culture,
to show the importance of the culture of the organization as a factor that can contribute to changes or interfere with them.
We want to introduce you to the best practices of modern organizations
that approach the reform, that is, the change of corporate culture,
or individual subcultures or so-called microcultures.
We want to present the experience of real projects,
within which organizations reformed their culture and conducted an analysis of it,
how it was done and what results they achieved.
We want to introduce you to the tools that allow you to diagnose corporate culture,
that is, from the analysis as it is to the further picture of the world or to the vision of how it will be,
that is, to outline possible ways of its update.
We want to show the role of political forces in the reform process,
how political forces within the company influence the change of corporate culture,
how they can contribute or interfere.
Let's start with the corporate culture, its elements and functions.
What is corporate culture?
It is quite often said that it is corporate culture or organizational culture.
Moreover, there are different approaches to understanding these two concepts.
On the one hand, sometimes, speaking of corporate culture, it means organizational culture,
and sometimes, under corporate culture, it means almost the same as organizational culture,
only in relation to large corporations.
Lately, more and more often, speaking of corporate culture, it means organizational culture.
If we look deeper, including at dictionaries,
the short encyclopedic dictionary of Bragaoza and Frona says that a corporation is a common name for many types of alliances
that have an internal organization that unites members of alliances as one whole.
It is a subject of rights and duties of a legal entity.
The word culture in Vladimir Daly's dictionary means education, both moral and intellectual.
The encyclopedia of sociology says that culture, from the Latin word for education,
is a system of historical, developing and biological programs of human activity.
I hope I did not confuse you.
Let's get closer to what is happening now.
What is corporate culture in the modern interpretation?
Corporate culture is a system of material and spiritual values,
manifestations that interact with each other,
that are inherent in a corporation,
that reflect its individuality and self-perception in the social and material environment,
that manifest in behavior, interaction, self-perception and the environment.
Quite often, when talking about corporate culture,
it is said that it is a collection of rules, standards of behavior and ideological postulates
based on the style of cooperation between employees, within the company,
with clients and external counteragents.
Let's do a little exercise.
It is a joke, but through it you will be able to understand
what corporate culture is and what its elements are,
what its multifacetedness is.
You need a clean sheet of paper and a pen for this.
Have you taken it?
Are you ready?
Please write one animal and three qualities that you like it for.
Write quickly, without thinking.
The first thing that comes to your mind.
Have you finished?
Now write the second animal that you like too,
and three qualities that you like it for.
Write quickly, without thinking.
The first thing that comes to your mind.
If you have the same animal and the same definitions in the adjective,
you can do it, it is not forbidden.
Have you finished?
Now write the third animal and three qualities that you like it for.
Write quickly, without thinking.
The conditions of the game are the same.
If you have the same animal and the same qualities,
you can write the same as the different variations.
Other qualities are also animals and vice versa.
Have you finished?
Now do you want to know what it is?
The first animal is what you want to be seen by.
The second animal is what you are seen by.
And the third animal is what you really are,
or your subjective perception of yourself.
This test is a joke, it is not a psycho-diagnostic, it is invalid,
but in every joke there is a part of the truth.
The same is true for corporate culture.
In his book Corporate Religion,
Jesper Kunde took the theory of Alfred Adler
about the three-member perception of a person as a basis.
He said that a company is perceived in three components as a person.
The first component is the mission,
how the company wants to be seen.
The second component is the brand,
how the company is seen.
The third component is corporate religion,
or the internal corporate culture of the company.
The company as it is inside.
What exists in it, what are the connections,
what are the internal elements.
In order to understand in general,
we will talk about the components,
about the elements of corporate culture.
But before we move on,
I want to say that in psychology there is a concept of congruence.
One thing should correspond to another.
That is, what we want to be seen
should correspond to how we are seen
and what we really are.
If this does not happen,
there is a kind of dissonance,
there is no congruence.
And the company is perceived
not as a single whole, a single component.
This directly affects the company's perception,
its business results,
and whether or not the consumer
chooses the company.
And this affects the employees
who come to the company,
and those who work in it.
And this also affects the duration of the company's work.
And this directly affects the changes.
We'll talk about this a little later.
Some time ago,
the Association of Managers conducted a study.
According to this study,
the influence of corporate culture on something was determined.
So what does corporate culture affect first of all?
I mean not just corporate culture,
but its presence.
Because corporate culture is always there,
even if it is not formalized.
It is the conscious management of corporate culture
and understanding of who we are.
So, first of all,
corporate culture affects the provision
of a positive image of the company
for the staff, shareholders and external audiences.
When a company is perceived as a single whole,
the image of the company is certainly increased
in the eyes of the consumer,
external agents and employees.
And the degree of influence
of a clearly formed corporate culture
and a consciously managed one
is quite high.
It is high for the end result,
for the business result.
Next, what does corporate culture affect?
It contributes to the achievement
of the company's performance indicators.
As I said,
employees choose a company
and become loyal to it
based on the corporate culture
that exists in the company.
And the longer a person works in a company,
the more effective he is.
It is clear that more effective employees
show and demonstrate much higher results
than those who come
and most of the people
are in the company.
For example, they are in the adaptation stage.
The next factor
that influences the corporate culture
is that it contributes to the better motivation of the staff.
The next one is one of the key factors
in the strategy of the company's development.
If our strategic goals are formed
on the basis of the mission,
and the mission is an integral part
of the corporate culture,
it is clear that we choose the strategy
depending on our mission and values.
The next factor
that influences the corporate culture
is that it contributes to the better performance
of the business processes in the company.
What is the corporate culture made of?
What are its elements?
The first one is the corporate mission declaration,
corporate philosophy,
corporate spirit,
leadership style,
corporate management,
corporate ethics,
corporate image and reputation,
human resources management,
which is also an element
of the corporate culture of the company,
and quality control.
How do we control the quality
of our products, services,
and goods?
These are all the elements
of the corporate culture.
When we say that
the corporate culture needs to be
realized, formalized,
and managed properly,
we need to understand
the functions of the company,
what it carries.
The main task is
to create a common language.
Often, the business owners
and top managers
use the term
of a single cognitive apparatus.
They say that we need
our employees to speak the same language,
to live in the same plane,
in the same space.
This is an objective reality.
A huge number of mistakes
are made by the company,
including violations
of internal business communications,
as well as external business communications.
That is why
the creation of a single
cognitive apparatus
or common language
is becoming more and more important.
The employees of the company
understand each other
practically without words,
and they are divided into categories
of business purpose.
The next function
of the corporate culture
is to create a boundary
and a criterion for the other.
When we talk about the corporate culture,
we mean the mission
and values.
The only conflict
that is not resolved
is the conflict
at the value level.
That is why
companies are increasingly
addressing the values
of the corporate culture
and are forming
the so-called corporate competencies.
What are the corporate competencies?
These are the personal features
of people who correspond
to the values of the company.
When a company is selected,
it starts to say that this person is its own,
and this person is someone else's.
Not everyone can fit into the company,
not everyone can be effective in the company,
and not everyone can be a good employee.
The understanding of the values
and philosophies
of the company
and its basic postulates
leads to the fact
that the company understands
who is its own, who is ours,
and who is someone else's.
That is how
the corporate competencies are formed.
The next function of the corporate culture
is to motivate people
with values and to provide obedience.
This is an important thing
and it is also related
to the ideology.
Why is obedience important?
Obedience to the staff
and to the external consumers.
The loyalty of the staff
is important for the simple reason
that a person becomes effective
the second or third year of working in a company.
The longer a person works,
the more effective he is,
because he knows the specifics,
he knows the company,
he knows the business goals.
Of course, such employees
are more effective and useful for the company.
Moreover,
if there is a process of change in the company,
these employees are more loyal
to the changes,
because they live more
with the interests of the company
than only with their own.
It is clear that
it is difficult
to expect
that the employees
will live only
with the interests of the company.
In order to do this,
they need to be shareholders.
However, if an employee is loyal
to the company,
he reacts more flexibly
to the changes that may occur
and he adapts
to these changes better.
He is ready to adapt
because the company is
his value level.
The next function
is the distribution of power,
authority and status.
It is the distribution
of authority and status
of the corporate culture
and the style of management
and internal business communication.
The next function
is the determination of the norms
of behavior and relations.
It is related to the corporate image
and to the corporate management
that tells
how the company
is formed in business
and internal and external communication.
The corporate standards
are formed in various directions
and they are formalized
in the corporate code.
We will talk about it later.
Another function
of the corporate culture
is the formation of approaches
to the work.
How do we do it?
What do we do?
What don't we do?
Now we will talk about
each of the elements
and the basic elements
of the corporate culture.
The important element
of the corporate culture
is the corporate spirit.
It is often said
that there is a corporate spirit
in our company.
It is often said
that there is a microclimate
in our company.
What is the corporate spirit?
The corporate spirit
is defined as the following.
is the emotional and spiritual connections
that are formed
between the members of the team
and they are formed
around the mission
and vision of the company.
The psycho-emotional connections
that are formed
inside the company
and the informal relations
are the corporate spirit.
Let's take a picture.
There are two employees
and in the distance
they are crawling
into something small
and not very visible.
One of them asks
who is that?
The other one answers
that it is our corporate spirit.
The corporate spirit
is something that is always there
but it is not always possible
to feel it.
It is something
that the team is often united around.
People stay in the company
thanks to the microclimate
that is formed in the team
and choose it
for a long-term work.
Another element of the corporate culture
is the corporate ethics.
The Latin word for it
means the custom and character.
It is a system
of behavior norms
that is based on the ethics
of the employees
and the environment.
The standards of the corporate ethics
are implemented
through the ethical rules
and the business communication standards.
The companies
do not have
the same corporate standards.
The companies usually take
the basic standards
of the ethics
and the rest
of the values
that the company has.
What are the basic rules
of the ethics?
It is the need to keep promises.
Most people
would like to have a guarantee
that the promises
that are given
will be fulfilled.
But it is not only
the employees
or external agents
that are involved in the process.
It is also the consumer
of the company
that is involved
in the process.
It is the consumer, the seller,
the buyer.
Recently
I have heard
the definition
of the corporate competencies
of the companies
as follows.
The company has the obligation
to be responsible.
What does it mean?
It means
the ability
to keep promises,
to fulfill the promises
given
to the other party.
The owners often say
not only about the obligation
to fulfill the promises
to the external agents,
partners,
consumers,
but also about the employees.
In this picture of the world
they say
that it is important
to fulfill the promises
not only to the employer
but also to the employee
before the employer.
It is a road with a bilateral movement.
It is a tendency
to have a team style
of interaction.
More and more companies
talk about a team style
of cooperation.
The first ethical rule
is the cooperation.
Every person
who joins a social group
expects to receive help
from other members
when they need it.
It is also a team style
of cooperation.
The next rule
is the respect for the property.
Not only for the property,
but also for the intellectual property.
Each of us
has a certain knowledge
which we leave
in the company
when we join it.
We have to leave it
because the company pays us
money or a bonus.
It is very important
that the company
appreciates it
on one hand
and on the other hand
the employee is ready
to share it with us.
When there is respect
on both sides
the company
is enriched
with the knowledge
of its employees.
It affects
the company's efficiency.
I would like to talk
about the tools
which form
the company's personality.
We create
an image of the company.
There is a corporate culture
called corporate image.
We create it
through various components
such as the interior,
our employees,
their appearance,
the way they answer the phone,
the phone call,
exhibitions, brochures,
advertising,
corporate events.
There are also
certain tools and ways
of positioning.
A common tool
which is used by a lot of companies
is the corporate code.
Another tool
is the corporate information system.
It is a variety
of so-called internal PR.
These are internal publications
such as newspapers,
magazines, bulletins.
More and more companies
use audiovisual media
such as radio, television,
and video clips.
There are also traditional ways
such as the advertising board,
the information board,
and so on.
Another interesting tool
is the hotline
between the company's manager
and the employees.
Sometimes it is called
the voice booth
where the employees
share their wishes,
their discontent,
doubts, questions.
It is a channel
of informal communication.
There are also
some events
such as
informational and explanatory
events
by the company.
For example,
presentations,
rumors are also
a tool
to create a company's personality.
However, it is a tool
that needs to be managed.
Another way
to create a company's personality
is traditions
and symbols.
We have already talked
about the corporate culture
and its components.
Now let's imagine
a situation
when you are
the initiator
of the company's changes.
For example,
you are the project
that you need to implement.
Sometimes we think
that we are implementing a project
and everything will be great
and it will work.
Very often we do not take into account
certain nuances,
the company's readiness,
its features,
and the corporate culture.
How much will the corporate culture
help with these changes
and how much will it prevent
these changes from happening?
As far as I know,
many of you are already
well-trained
and know that any change
causes resistance.
It is a normal, live reaction
of the body.
But we can also calculate
possible risks
and use tools
that will reduce
the resistance.
Then your project
will be implemented
much faster and more effectively.
Where do we start?
We start with an audit.
Everything always starts
with a study of the situation.
Sometimes we do it unconsciously.
When we join a new company,
we start studying something.
As a consultant,
when I join a company,
most of the projects start with a diagnosis
and understanding of the current state of affairs.
When it comes to preparing
a project,
we also have to start
before planning and scheduling
the project.
We have to understand what we have.
How to conduct an audit?
You can do it on your own
or you can invite
specialists from outside.
If they come from outside,
they know what tools to use.
If you do it on your own,
you can use
traditional audits.
You can develop the audit
on your own.
Your task at this stage is to understand
what you have here now.
How it is now.
How does a corporate culture look like?
It is often said
that corporate culture is as it is.
The audit of a corporate culture
is as it is.
I would like to inform you
about how to conduct an audit
or how to choose consultants
if you decide
that a consultant is conducting an audit.
It is very important
that you choose a consultant
who is a good fit for you.
You should choose a consultant
It is very important
that the incoming consultants
understand that corporate culture
is an important component
of the company.
You should take the choice of consultants
as well as the choice of any
external provider
quite seriously.
It is important to form the requirements
on the basis of which
you will choose consultants
and evaluate them
so that they come
and give you the desired result.
It is the same as
a doctor or a psychologist.
The main command is
not to harm.
If the consultants
start to wave their swords
and say that
you should break this
and that it is disturbing,
you should not take
such consultants
because corporate culture
does not change in one hour.
Corporate culture
is not just some postulates
and formalized elements.
As I said,
it is people's values,
the behavior models
that they choose
based on these values,
the emotional reactions
that they have
within these behavior models.
It is a question of personal
and individuality of a group of people.
A group of people
with certain values,
behavior models,
emotional reactions.
We recall the corporate spirit
and the emotional connections.
If you break them
and do it unthinkingly,
it is very painful
and you will be cut alive.
Therefore,
treat the choice of consultants
very wisely, consciously
and purposefully.
Spend some time on it.
Do not make a decision
in a jiffy
because the result
can be deplorable.
Your task is
to achieve
your result
and to do it effectively.
I would like to give an example
of a company.
How did
the change
in the corporate culture
happen?
A while ago
a company called
Hair Consulting
was put in the center
of a paradigm,
a value level.
The company realized
what it is now.
It is a company of individualists,
a company that makes
continuous changes
and a company that performs
the tasks.
The components
of the corporate culture
were formed around this paradigm.
The analysis was made
based on them.
These are symbols,
power,
organization,
rituals, routine,
legends and control.
This is how the game is implemented.
The analysis was made
based on these components.
What do we have now?
If our values are individualism
and autonomy,
then the symbol
of this value
was the need to look busy
or creative disorder.
This is what
was reflected
in the surveyors.
Then the company formed
its approaches,
what we want to be,
what we are and what we need.
What do we want to achieve?
Within the framework of what we need
the paradigm of focus on the client
appeared.
Then the components
around the paradigm
began to change.
In particular, the symbols
became informal interaction.
The creative order
became an element
of the corporate culture.
The company
was just the beginning
of the way.
We understand
how it is,
we draw the picture as it should be,
but after that we must understand
what we will do,
which ways we will go to the right place,
which steps we will take,
which programs to implement.
In fact,
in this situation
a huge number of companies
face
changes.
These changes can be diverse.
It can be a process of merging and absorbing,
it can be rebranding,
it can be a change
of the manager,
it can be
a change of the top manager team.
But most often it is a process
of merging and absorbing,
rebranding,
and in the situation when the company
reaches a new quality level
in some markets, including international.
It is a very interesting experience
of the company
TNK BP,
when the Russian company merged
with the Western company.
In order to understand
what the corporate culture will be,
the image of the
single corporate culture was formed.
It is clear that there were many nuances.
On the one hand,
the corporate culture of TNK
was very different from the pro-Western style
of work and interaction
in the BP company.
Moreover,
there was a language barrier.
The single-pronoun apparatus
was complicated
by the fact that people
spoke different languages.
TNK BP
developed a huge number of programs
in order to
come to the new
corporate culture
that was formed
at the stage of merging and absorbing.
The company understood
that there is a corporate culture
of TNK,
and there is a corporate culture of BP.
And what kind of corporate culture
we want to get.
In the process of merging and absorbing
there can be different interesting
results.
On the one hand,
a stronger corporate culture
can eat a weaker corporate culture.
On the other hand,
a new corporate culture
can be created
and the best
of the two companies
can be taken from the corporate culture
of the other company.
And a portrait of the company
can be created.
All the programs
that are planned
help to change
the corporate culture
of the company.
For example,
if the company
lived in a conservative environment,
the main postulate
in the management style
was an authoritarian style
and a unilateral decision-making.
And the company
starts to make changes
and understands
that it hinders the company's development.
It starts to change
certain aspects of its approach.
In particular,
it helps to implement
new modern tools,
trends, approaches,
motivation of the staff,
interaction, decision-making.
If a decision is made
that we need to change
the corporate management style
and the management style
of people
to a more democratic plane,
it is clear that
the changes will not happen at once.
Because the choice of the management style
is a personal choice
of the people
who choose it.
On the other hand,
it is a norm
that we are used to live in.
It is hard to imagine
that a person who interacted
with a strict superordination
will interact
with a democratic one
tomorrow.
That is why
a number of measures
and projects
are needed
to make changes
in people
who are used
to interact
within the existing corporate culture.
Let's go back to the situation
when you are the initiator
and you need to make an audit
to understand
the corporate culture.
You decided to develop
a project independently.
How should it look like?
It is a field of fantasy.
It is important to remember
that we ask any question
with a goal
to get a result.
When you are forming this audit,
base on these postulates.
We form every question
with a goal
and we want
to get a result.
Then there will be no extra questions
but the questions
should cover
the whole corporate culture.
For example,
you can form questions
about your company's reputation
as an employer,
how the company is perceived
as an attractive employer
and not only
by the employees
who have been working for a long time
but by all the employees
including the new employees.
You can ask questions
about how your attitude
to the company has changed
before the company was created,
during the adaptation period,
during the working process
and after 2-3 years
if you have enough employees.
The next thing
that should be audited
is the management style.
What is the management style?
There are many things
that are connected to this.
The decision-making,
the communication,
the business communication
inside the company,
the planning,
the motivation system
depend on the management style
chosen by the company.
The independence
in the decision-making
is also a component
of the management style
as well as the level of trust.
It is based on the management
of the people
and the managerial competencies.
You should also diagnose
the innovation.
How innovative the company is,
how much the employees
are used to living in the innovation,
how much they are ready for changes,
for the risk and so on.
Another important factor
is to determine
how loyal the employees are
to the company,
how much they identify with the company,
how much they value
within the company
and whether they think
in the categories of business purpose.
I call it the motive at the level of the idea.
It is when any initiative,
any action,
any innovation
is first of all measured
on the business purpose,
on the final business result.
It is important to take a look
at the workbook,
to see Harrison's survey
and to make an analysis
of the corporate culture
based on this survey.
What happens
in the situation of implementation
of changes
when we do not manage
to follow the changes?
Let's take a business process
according to the scheme.
The employees have a feeling
that there is stability.
They have stability.
Most of the employees.
The management of the company
believes that the company
needs to be brought to a new level.
In fact, the changes are
even the implementation
of corporate standards.
The company has been living
without the standards of the external view
and the standards of telecommunications.
Tomorrow or in a week
or sometime later
the company introduces.
The staff perceives it
as a restriction of their freedom.
I repeat,
the normal reaction of the body
is a change.
We do not have any programs
that would accompany
these changes
and contribute to the reduction
of resistance.
What happens?
Stability, the feeling of the staff
and the beginning of changes.
Then the resistance begins.
You continue to introduce changes.
The resistance is intensified.
Either in an open form,
an open conflict,
or in a hidden form,
a hidden sabotage.
What do you do next?
You start to fight
with these resistances.
They do it in different ways.
Sometimes they use administrative resources,
administrative measures.
Sometimes they try to clarify.
But if your company
is inclined to an authoritarian style of management,
then most likely the clarification
will have a declarative nature.
It will look like
you force your staff to be happy.
They do not understand
why they have to do this.
what is happening.
Then there is
either an exit from the change
or the changes continue
and you try to resist.
What happens next?
There is a destruction
of a certain authenticity.
When you have already
come out of these changes,
you can no longer live
authentically as before.
You can't live in a new way.
You can't do it, you don't want to.
Your staff is demotivated.
Then there is
a long process
when you return to stability.
Why do people resist changes?
Because
we are inclined
to stability.
The second step of the pyramid
is the need for safety.
For us, stability is a feeling of safety.
It is a physiological need.
We strive
to surround and create
a feeling of safety.
If there are changes
without accompaniment,
without information,
we resist.
But when we do not receive information,
what do we do?
We think it over.
We think it over
and we are more likely
to be disappointed.
We expect negative changes
rather than positive ones.
This is a social and cultural feature
of our country.
The changes in our country
were usually
very encouraging
and negative.
We are all from the past life,
from historical experience,
from our own experience.
We always expect something bad.
We always
evaluate changes
in the situation
that will bring
positive changes
to me.
Every time we combine
our goals and motives
with the changes
that are happening.
There are changes in goals,
motives, values.
And every time a person evaluates
the changes that will come
and contribute
to his goals.
And how much
the goals that will be within the company
correspond to his goals, motives,
values.
If he does not receive information,
he begins to resist it.
Because it is a threat
to his safety,
his personality
and values.
A person perceives it this way.
Now let's look at the situation
where the company culture
is being accompanied.
The situation again.
The feeling of stability
of the staff.
Then preparation
for the changes begins.
It begins with an analysis
of the existing corporate culture.
Including understanding
how much the corporate culture
will contribute, help with the changes.
How much it will interfere with these changes.
Then the vision is formed
or the corporate culture
that we want to come to.
In all its components.
And,
based on this,
certain approaches are formed
in terms of how to motivate the staff.
How to form
the staff's
commitment to the changes.
How to involve the staff
in the process of change.
What to do
so that people
participate in these changes.
So that they accept them
and, most importantly,
do not resist these changes.
In fact,
the search begins
in the process of adaptation.
The adaptation of people
to the changes
of the corporate culture.
Sometimes,
in the situation of changes,
including at the stage of preparation,
the agents of changes are determined.
A model of competence
for these agents of changes is formed.
These people are identified
who will help the management,
help the company
implement these changes.
They can be informal leaders.
They can be formal leaders,
that is, the existing managers of the management link.
And they actively
draft and implement
in addition to the existing programs
in the company
some new standards
of behavior, interaction
that will occur
as a result of the changes
that will be present in the company.
Actually,
this path can take
quite a long time.
In particular, the same company,
TNK-BP,
has been implementing the process
of changing the corporate culture for four years.
And in the next three or four years,
they are planning programs
for the improvement of the corporate culture.
The process is quite long.
What happens next?
The adoption of these new values
or identification
with the new corporate culture
takes place.
People begin to see themselves
within this corporate culture.
Not just see,
but their behavior,
interaction,
adaptation to new standards,
to a new style,
to a new culture.
In particular,
if we talk about the changes
in the system of values
and coordinates
in the field of human management,
if we move from the declarative style
of management, from authoritarian to democratic,
it is clear that the manager,
who was inclined to the authoritarian style
and made all decisions unilaterally,
will start making decisions
collegially from tomorrow.
If, for example, he communicated
with his staff only through
written communication,
he never asked people
how they were doing,
what they were doing,
it is difficult to assume
that from tomorrow he will come
to the department and say,
hello, how are you?
This will take a long time,
and the process of its change
will take place through training,
development,
personal development.
This is a system that informs
what will happen in the company,
how it will change,
what will change,
what will it bring to the staff,
how the staff can realize
their potential, their goals,
their motives within the framework
of a new, updated corporate culture.
At the end of the way,
you should come to the conclusion
that there should be stability
in new conditions
and a complete adaptation
of corporate culture standards.
In addition to the fact
that we analyze
the corporate culture,
it should be remembered
that certain subcultures
or microcultures are always formed
in the company.
Each structural unit
forms its own microculture.
Especially in special structural units
there are microcultures
of their own.
This can be dangerous
because if you have
a branch director
of a representative of a unit
in a special structural unit,
who is a bright and strong leader
and he has formed his own subculture
or his own microculture,
which for some reason
suddenly dissonates
with the general corporate culture
and with the general standards,
and you did not notice it,
then in the event of changes
it can cause serious resistance,
sabotage
and this will slow down
the changes
and as a result
the achievement of the business goals.
Because often there are situations
when the leaders of special structural units
think more about the categories
of their personal benefit
and personal success
and their ambitions,
and not about the categories
of purpose for the business.
Then they become a hindrance
on the way to the implementation
of the changes.
When I am asked
what to do in this situation,
I always say that it is necessary
to inform, motivate,
explain to the leader
the benefit and why we want
to do it and involve him
in the process of change.
But if this does not work
and the person is not ready
to act within the framework of the existing culture,
then such leaders must be left out.
Because they will only interfere
with the company and thereby
interfere with the achievement of the company
and its main goals.
There are situations
when the corporate culture
does not resist changes.
There are situations
when there is a serious crisis in the company,
when the first person
of the organization changes
and when the company
is very young
and there are no clear
directions of action,
values,
missions,
not even formalized.
Sometimes they are not even
consciously owned by the business.
This happens at the startup stage
in small and small companies.
When we enter the market
through the so-called strategy
of ambitions,
we want to earn a million
for a certain period
and we do not study the market,
we do not plan
all the necessary marketing actions
and moves,
but we just break into the field
and start doing something.
And in the process of the way,
making mistakes,
we begin to understand
something about ourselves.
When the first successes appear
and the staff increases,
we need to formalize
and to realize
where we are,
what we are,
and then to formalize
certain standards, processes,
including the formalization
of corporate culture.
It happens not immediately
and not always.
Consciousness is not part
of the culture,
so there is nothing to resist.
Or when the corporate culture
is weak enough,
although it can be said
that the culture does not resist,
but we need to remember
that people within this culture
can still resist.
And now, please,
complete the task 2
in your notebook.
Now we will talk about the tools
of reforming corporate culture.
How can we change corporate culture?
Should we analyze all subcultures
if changes are planned in one unit?
And how to make a change
in a subculture?
How to make a change
We have already discussed this.
Let's talk about it again.
What can help us
to change corporate culture?
Radical changes of the external environment
or some political trends.
New value-oriented actions
through planned actions.
I have already talked about it.
For example,
the implementation of programs
for reward for teamwork,
results of activities, etc.
A vivid example is
rebranding
which was implemented
by Beeline.
This fact is known.
Beeline has a corporate university.
And, in fact,
the management of ideological
component of corporate culture
is implemented through the university.
When a decision was made
about rebranding
Beeline's management
through training, presentation
and information
was implemented.
The management of the company
was implemented
from the management to all the staff.
The training and presentation
were conducted
by Beeline's managers.
The questions were discussed
not only about
how the brand will change
and how it will look
but also about
how the approach to service
and client standards
will change.
How the standards of interaction
How the motivation of the staff
will change.
What benefits will the staff
get from these changes.
Only after the presentation
was conducted by the employees
the brand
was launched
on the market.
When the customers
and the external market
learned about rebranding
the staff already knew
how to behave.
Because after the presentation
and the information
about what will happen
the staff had to be trained
by the new standards.
Then there was a fixation
and certain programs
connected with the fixation
and the new standards.
The fixation was controlled
by the existing training system.
That's why the corporate universities
are often used as a tool
for corporate management.
What else can be changed?
The staff can be attracted
with the competences
that correspond
to the new corporate culture.
How is it done?
We understand
the corporate culture
and we form
the corporate competences
and we expand them
and we adjust them
to the new corporate culture.
We understand the gap
between the existing
and the new.
We evaluate the existing staff
according to the new competences.
We form a number of programs
for the existing staff
and we attract the staff
from outside
to the competences
that correspond
to the new corporate culture.
The only thing
that needs to be taken into account
is that if you are targeting
the people,
it's clear that they are
different from the existing people.
These people correspond
to the existing culture.
They are agents of change.
And the new staff
is a part of the new culture.
Your task is
to support these people
and to instill
the old people
with the standards,
values and competences
that the new staff have.
At the same time,
you should adapt the new staff
to the values of the old staff.
Because the corporate culture
never changes fundamentally.
For example,
it was one
and it became another.
Theoretically, it can happen,
but it will take a long time.
Or you need to change
the staff completely.
Usually, companies don't do that.
If we have the owner
and the main postulates
of the mission and values,
the corporate culture can be improved.
But fundamentally,
it will hardly change.
Therefore, your task
is to assimilate the new people
into the old corporate culture
and to develop the existing staff
to the competences
that the new staff will bring.
It's a rather difficult task,
but it's quite interesting.
What else can change
the corporate culture?
The dismissal of those workers,
especially those who
have a strongly contradictory
strategy,
in particular,
if they are representatives
of the special structural units
that declare
a contradictory
subculture.
It helps to change
the corporate culture.
A personal example of the first person.
That's why
the changes that companies
will make
are often told
by the first persons.
The business owner
is a general manager
with a high authority
who is in charge of the management
and is involved in the strategy.
It's done sometimes
within the corporate universities.
It may not be a corporate university,
but the fact that the first persons
are involved in the changes
is a fact.
Moreover, they not only present,
but also demonstrate
new behavior models
and standards
with their personal example.
Then the employees become more loyal
and believe in the leaders.
The leaders are the first persons.
They are the general managers.
The initial audit
and targeted events
on the change
of the corporate culture
also contribute to the change.
Another important factor
is the involvement of the employees,
clients and partners
in the discussion of the attributes
of the existing corporate culture
and in the development
of the standards
of the corporate culture
that we strive for
and want to get.
Together with them
we form and formalize
our values,
maybe some slightly changed ones,
which are intended to support
the strategy of the company.
One of the tools
that contributes to the implementation
of the changes
is the corporate university.
The corporate university
is an ideological machine.
It is a tool of corporate management
that is designed to create,
to train, to develop
the existing staff,
the new staff,
to form the staff
ideologically,
to put some ideological
postulates,
to create values
that will help
to identify
the employees
from the company
and, as a result,
to achieve the business goals.
The corporate university
is a tool of corporate management
to realize
the strategic goals of the company.
There are a lot
of corporate universities
in Russia.
Unfortunately,
not all of them are Russian.
Sometimes they are just
educational centers,
either internal or external.
They don't solve the ideological task
or don't solve it at all.
But from the point of view
of the Western standards,
the corporate university
solves the main task
in creating the ideology
and forming the loyalty
of the company.
I told you about the Beeline experience.
Many Russian companies
are implementing the same changes.
The experience of the Western companies
is very interesting.
The company called
Walt Disney
tried to preserve
the dying corporate culture.
Because after Walt Disney's death,
the standards he created
were not
in the same place
as the current one.
The company
Walt Disney
was innovative
and constantly changing.
Moreover, Walt Disney
is the person
who created
certain approaches
to the management of changes.
For example,
he had three groups.
The first group was
the ideologists and creatives.
They were creating the ideas.
The third group
was the people who criticized
the ideas and took risks.
Then the ideas were finalized.
After the finalization,
the third group of the creators
was the ones who implemented
the ideas.
Thus, Walt Disney's company
was developing and new products
were coming.
The new products of Walt Disney
are the cartoons we watch.
When Walt Disney died,
the company lost
its standards
and innovation.
Then the corporate university
was created.
It was created to
constantly support the company
in the process of changes
and to preserve
the standards and ideological postulates
and to multiply
and give the opportunity
to the company to develop further.
This is a very interesting experience
of the Western companies.
Another distinctive feature
of the corporate universities
is that the corporate universities
are the internal lecturers.
They are the top managers of the companies.
They are actively involved in this.
It is clear that the initiators
of any global changes
are the managers.
Moreover, the success of changes
increases when
the leaders are the initiators.
They are actively involved in this.
That is why the ideology
is formed in the heads
and the ideology is mostly
printed on the top.
That is why the top managers
are the internal lecturers
of the corporate universities.
This is a distinctive feature
of the corporate universities,
especially of the Western and Russian ones.
Also, within the framework
of the corporate universities
the values are transmitted
from the old employees
to the new ones.
They are multiplied
and preserved.
How and what tools
should be used
to form the corporate culture
of remote, isolated offices
or virtual offices?
I will not talk about
the corporate universities
because all employees
are trained there.
The first step is
to enter the company
through the corporate universities,
to learn and to learn
about the values, standards
and missions.
How to support?
It is clear that you can support
only through the constant
communication and interaction.
Regular meetings,
video conferences,
regular communication
and information about
the changes in the company,
discussions,
regular interaction
in the online mode.
There should not be a situation
where the isolated structures
live their own life
and the head office lives its own.
As soon as such a situation arises,
there is a serious danger
that the isolated structures
will form their own subculture
which is not a fact
and will be congruent
to the corporate culture
of the head office.
Then you may face
serious problems.
Formalized things are used,
the corporate code,
which is used to register
all the things,
all the standards, values,
missions, standards of work,
standards of interaction,
standards of appearance,
all the algorithms,
organizational structure,
which are related to the corporate culture.
Traditions are also introduced
through rituals.
For example,
rituals of promotion,
rituals of movement,
rituals of reception to work,
rituals of resolving conflicts
and so on.
I repeat that one of the tools
that forms the corporate culture
and informs about the standards
that exist in the company
is the corporate code of the company.
The corporate code,
as I said, includes
almost all elements,
but the components of the corporate code
look like this.
These are some basic principles of work,
values and standards of behavior.
Actually,
it is filled with the content.
Some time ago,
when we were studying
with an American professor,
I asked how the corporate code
looks like in the USA.
I was told that the corporate code
in the USA looks like a thick
big piece of paper
in which everything is
formalized and prescribed.
Starting with the mission of values,
as I said,
continuing with the organizational structure,
including the faces of the first people,
their experience of work,
their life path,
then the standards of behavior,
standards of interaction,
in particular, if the company is engaged in sales,
then in this corporate code
everything related to sales
is prescribed and standardized.
But this is a fairly living tool.
Moreover,
considering the fact that the West
has gone far enough,
and there are usually electronic documents in companies,
on the contrary,
employees are not given
this corporate code,
but are given a hard drive,
or they are used as a common resource
where they can be familiarized.
Certain programs are formed,
which control,
either teach people through education,
or control the study of corporate standards.
Then people go through the assessment
of whether they understood
what is written in this corporate code.
So,
this document is quite alive.
The professor I was studying with
said that if something new
appears in a company,
or a response to an objection,
or a resolution of a conflict,
then it is immediately placed
in the corporate code.
If something changes,
the structure changes,
it is immediately changed in the corporate code.
This is an absolutely living document.
It lives together with the company.
It does not live separately from the company.
This is very important to understand.
Because,
unfortunately,
sometimes managers and
personnel specialists
think that they have
created this document,
put it on the shelf,
and that's it.
In the best case,
they have created an education system
at the stage of joining a company.
For beginners.
This is not so.
This document must be alive.
It must live with the company.
It contributes,
but also prevents
changes in corporate culture,
and, in particular,
changes in the company.
What is it?
First of all,
it is a lack of development strategy.
Next, it is a substitution of the process
of changing culture of advertising
or new jargon.
This often happens when rebranding happens.
Moreover,
sometimes consultants
do rebranding
when they join a company.
In order to get rid of taxes
or to make some changes.
Because sometimes
the sign changes,
the facade changes,
but nothing changes
behind this facade.
This is a substitution.
Substitution of changes.
It is clear that people
will not believe in
the leadership
that will declare
that changes will be made
after brand change.
This will not contribute
to the efficiency of the company.
What else is a hindrance?
In particular,
initiating changes from the middle level.
Any global changes
must be initiated from the top level.
In particular, changes that bring
changes to the corporate culture of the company.
This does not mean that you should not be
involved in the implementation of a project.
You should be involved in the implementation
of something new.
Moreover,
you should assess
how the projects you will implement
will contribute to the improvement of the company.
And how much the existing corporate culture
will interfere or not.
Global changes,
changes that attract the value level,
attract the strategy of the company,
are initiated by the top management.
And then these changes
are much more effective.
What else is a hindrance?
When short-term goals dominate.
When we live with some
minute needs,
we do not think and do not think
about the long-term prospects.
There is a strategic planning
and strategic goals.
And, in fact,
according to the same
Franklin's Pyramid,
long-term goals follow
the most important goals.
When we think about the minute,
we do not think about the day after.
We lose much more than when we think
about the long-term prospects
and global things.
And one more obstacle.
Cynicism as a consequence
of the lack of value.
Cynicism is, in principle,
the lack of values.
It is clear that
cynics probably also have some values.
But to a greater extent,
their absence is more important
than their values.
A company cannot live without values
because then there will be no ideology
in the company,
because then there will be no corporate ethics,
corporate spirit and much more.
Therefore, cynicism,
in particular, the cynicism of the top management,
is a serious obstacle
to the impact of the changes
in the corporate culture of the company.
We can also refer to the diagram
of the dependence
of corporate culture changes
on the probability of efficiency.
In particular,
when the top management
supports the changes,
the efficiency increases.
When the programs
that contribute to the changes
go through training of the staff,
the efficiency increases.
When we have formalized,
understandable values
and on the basis of them
corporate competencies are formed,
the efficiency increases.
These are the three main components
that contribute to the changes
in the corporate culture
and to the changes in the company.
Now, please complete the tasks 3 and 4
in your notebook.
Political organization and corporate religion
Political organization and corporate religion.
How does the political organization
affect the corporate religion?
It is clear that
there are always certain political forces
in the company
that have some influence
and have power.
If you plan these changes,
you need to understand
how these political forces
influence the corporate religion.
Will they influence
your country or not?
Moreover,
when changes occur,
for example,
if the top management
is partially changed,
the top management
that initiates the changes
and wants them
forms a political party.
The same political party
can be formed
by the party that does not agree.
Then there can be a conflict
of interests
and the company will be
plunged into a long-term
relationship.
If you are the initiator
of the changes,
you need to think
how to involve people
and how to interest them.
Because political parties
are formed
sometimes
out of their own ambitions,
but without the company's interests.
It is clear that it is not very good,
but it should be taken into account
and paid attention to.
Because people who participate
in the process of changes
play a very important role.
They play the role
and the degree of power
they have.
If you approach changes
purposefully
and want to manage them,
and this is your
correct political approach,
then you need to
formulate the goals of the changes.
What are they for?
What will be the result?
You need to clarify
the map of dependency
and interconnection.
What influential people
affect your work
and implementation of the project?
You need to predict
possible reactions
and points of view
that will influence you.
Then you need to analyze
the main reasons for
the authorities
and all those who were
highlighted in the previous stages.
You need to analyze
the preferences of the authorities
and the initiator of the changes.
You need to search for additional
sources of power
to control the situation.
Because you need to have the power
to successfully implement
the changes.
You need to choose the right strategy
and political approach
to the current situation
in your company.
But there is politics
and there is ideology.
You can play political games
or think of categories
of business purpose
and be ideological with the company.
We are ideological with the company
when our values coincide,
when we can and can realize
our goals and motives
within the company.
But how can we understand
that our goals and motives
coincide? We understand it
through information.
When we understand it,
we accept it and believe in it.
Then we go with the company
and we want to be successful
and help it.
We identify ourselves with the company
and we are proud of our work.
If we don't accept it,
we are still working within the company.
Then we are not motivated
to be effective.
We are demotivated.
We are more harmful than beneficial.
That's why any changes
in the company
need to be realized
through information.
Because we understand it
during the process of information.
Then we associate it
with ourselves,
our values, goals and motives.
If everything is OK,
we believe and stay.
If something is not OK,
we don't believe and leave.
If a employee is loyal to the company,
when he understands
that he can't realize
all his goals and motives
within the changed corporate culture
of the company,
he still reacts flexibly
to it.
He leaves his goals and motives
somewhere deep inside himself.
Part of his goals and motives.
If all of them are not realized,
he will leave.
He stays with the company
because he thinks
about business.
It's a very important thing.
It's a formula
to understand, accept and believe.
Actually,
many approaches of Western companies
are described in the book
of Kundi, the corporate religion.
In the part on the realization
of corporate ideology.
Not only corporate universities,
but other instruments
are used by Western companies.
For example, Harley Davidson
was distinguished by the fact
that all of its top management
was truly
involved in Harley Davidson's motorcycles.
They were actually
the supporters
of this idea.
They breathed it,
they lived it.
It was their value.
I can say that
from the point of view
of ideological machine
that existed in Soviet times,
it was one of the strongest.
In fact,
America itself
took a lot of the tools
used by the Soviet Union.
Now it's served
through a prism of some shows
when there is an emotional charge,
when people gather
and start singing hymns,
shouting slogans,
missions and so on.
I can tell you
one interesting example.
I worked in a company
that tried to realize
such standards,
ideological ones.
It worked well
in one of the special
structural units.
What did the director of this branch do?
He gathered all the employees
of the back office,
front office,
sales representatives,
supervisors
and turned on cartoons
for 10 minutes.
He charged them emotionally,
he sent positive energy to them.
Then there was a short
five-minute show
that was based on
the principles of our work.
People went to the fields.
They left in a good mood.
On the one hand.
On the other hand,
they were very loyal.
There was the minimum flow.
It was almost none.
There are situations
when the speakers are invited
to the talks
to maintain the emotional background
and identity of the company.
They speak quite emotionally
at the conferences.
During the conference
they discuss the corporate competencies.
For example, client-orientedness,
team-basedness,
uniqueness.
Everyone has his own corporate competence.
Everyone means something for it.
During the discussion
of the corporate competence
they talk about
the happiness of working in the company.
How great it is!
How proud we are!
People...
Usually, the conferences are quite extensive.
People from the specialised
cultural departments
leave in a good mood.
We can think of it
in different ways.
The brain-formatting
is a good thing.
Ideology is
a part of the state.
The company is
a prototype of the state.
The fact that there is a state
and my listeners
often tell me
about corporate culture.
I say, of course,
we have it in our state.
The company is a prototype of the state.
The tools of managing people,
the formation of values,
the ideology that exists in the state
also exist in the company.
Everything is fine
within reason.
As they say,
the dose is not important,
but the medicine.
If there is a overdose,
nothing good will happen.
It is very important to use
these tools in reasonable limits.
Moreover, with a clear understanding
whether they correspond
to your corporate culture,
whether the staff will accept you or not.
It is important not to overdo it.
It is also important
that the postulates you put
in people's heads
are consistent and uniform.
Everyone lives by the same standards.
If you put these standards
in people's heads
and tell them to act like this,
and your top management,
business owners,
will declare and demonstrate
completely different behavior patterns,
people will never believe it.
They will not follow you.
They will not believe your company.
They will think that they are being deceived.
Most likely, they will leave the company.
And decide whether to use
these tools or not,
in what volume,
with what frequency,
and for what category of staff.
It is up to you,
individually, in each case.
Because only you know
what your company is,
what are its features,
what are its values,
and what is its corporate culture.
I told you a little about
the experience of the company,
the experience of Beeline.
I can say that
these are quite positive experiences.
I will not name the companies
that used not very positive experiences
in the same rebranding.
When the company launched
a new brand and did not
provide any information
about what will change in the company.
At least, the answer to the question
why you have become like this.
One of the well-known companies
that did rebranding
went to the market with new brands
when consumers asked
why you changed your brand,
what has changed.
The employees were surprised
to see the consumers
and said that they did not know anything.
What do you think?
Did the company gain
more respect and trust?
It is unlikely.
Even if the employees themselves
do not know what is happening
in their companies,
they cannot clearly and argumentatively
inform the consumer.
It is clear that the consumer
does not know what is going on.
Maybe there is a crash,
maybe we will have problems.
We better vote by foot
and go to another company.
This is how the influence
of management of changes in the company
influences.
In particular, at the stage of rebranding.
The situation with the influence
of absorption.
There are situations
when companies merge
and absorb.
There is no clear understanding
of how the corporate culture
will change.
And there is a surge of shaking.
The company can go through
a long period of process
of merging and absorption.
If there is a separate
structural division in the company,
at the stage of merging and absorption,
when this process is going on,
they begin to form their corporate culture.
And a subculture.
Then this subculture
can show up
as a slow-moving mine.
This is a risk that
can be avoided with a deliberate
and conscious management.
What are the paradoxes
of information transformation changes?
Surprisingly, the older and more stable
the organization, the more difficult
it is to start a process of change.
This is a predictable paradox.
The older the company,
the more established
the norms, rules and standards.
Even if they are not formalized.
Imagine a bureaucratic machine
that used to live by its standards
in the Soviet Union.
Most of the staff
has been working
for 20-40 years.
Suddenly, young managers
come and try to implement
some Western standards.
There was a tough machine
that had subordination,
bureaucratic standards.
And suddenly,
new things appear.
It is clear that
the existing environment,
the conservative environment,
will actively resist
these changes.
This is what happens in government structures
where new managers
and new formations
come in and the staff
starts to growl and actively resist.
Unfortunately,
this is what happens.
Some staff leaves
because of these changes
or because they don't understand
the benefits of these changes.
Sometimes we lose important people
that we can't find on the market.
Or we part with those people
who stop the process of change
and prevent the company
from moving forward.
What else is a paradox?
A manager who hired a new employee
who has a corporate culture
and is more progressive
should balance
two things.
He should balance
the basic values of the existing company
and its values
and competencies
that are a bit ahead
of the competencies
of the existing employees.
This should be taken into account.
Please, complete tasks 5 and 6
in your notebook.
What conclusions can be drawn?
A corporate culture
is not bad or good.
It can be appropriate.
A corporate culture
or even a subculture
can be a catalyst
for the change.
It can slow down the change.
Reforming a corporate culture
is a long and complex process
that takes a long time.
You should approach this process
responsibly,
consciously and planarly.
Cultural aspects
of projects on merging and absorption
are one of the most important
factors of success.
I gave you an example
of the same TNK-BP.
You should carefully
approach the choice
of external consultants
that you will invite
for the reforming
of your corporate culture.
Thank you for your attention.
I wish you success.
Goodbye.